THERE is not much to say about these stories. The first four 
are the last ones I have written. The others follow in the 
order in which they were originally published. 

The first one I wrote was 'Up in Michigan', written in 
Paris in 1921. The last was 'Old Man at the Bridge', cabled 
from Barcelona in April of 1938. 

I wrote The Killers', 'To-day Is Friday', Ten Indians", 
part of 'Fiesta', and the first third of 'To Have and Have Not' 
in Madrid. It was always a good place for working. So was 
Paris, and so were Key West, Florida, in the cool months; the 
ranch, near Cooke City, Montana; Kansas City; Chicago; 
Toronto, and Havana, Cuba. 

Some other places were not so good, but maybe we were 
not so good when we were in them. 

There are many kinds of stories in this book. I hope that 
you will find some that you like. Reading them over, the ones 
I liked the best, outside of those that have achieved some 
notoriety so that school teachers include them in story col- 
lections that their pupils have to buy in story courses, and 
you are always faintly embarrassed to read them and wonder 
whether you really wrote them or did you maybe hear them, 
somewhere, are 'The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber', 
'In Another Country 5 , 'Hills Like White Elephants', 'A Way 
You'll Never Be', 'The Snows of Kilimanjaro', 'A Clean, 
Well-Lighted Place', and a story called 'The Light of the 
World', which nobody else ever liked. There are some others 
too. Because if you did not like them you would not publish 
them. 

In going where you have to go, and doing what you have 
to do, and seeing what you have to see, you dull and blunt 
the instrument you write with. But I would rather have it 
bent and dulled and know I had to put it on the grindstone 
again and hammer it into shape and put a whetstone to it, 
and know that I had something to write about, than to have 



8 PREFACE 

it bright and shining and nothing to say, or smooth and well 
oiled in the closet, but unused. < 

Now it is necessary to get to the grindstone again. I wQuld 
like to live long enough to write three more novels and 
twenty-five more stories. I know some pretty good ones. 

ERNEST HEMINGWAY 



THE SHORT HAPPY LIFE OF 
FRANCIS MACOMBER 

IT was now lunch time and they were all sitting under the 
double green fly of the dining tent pretending thit nothing 
had happened. 

'Will you have lime juice or lemon squash? 5 Macomber 
asked. 

Til have a gimlet/ Robert Wilson told him. 

Til have a gimlet too. I need something,' Macomber's 
wife said. 

'I suppose it's the thing to do/ Macomber agreed. 'Tell 
him to make three gimlets.' 

The mess boy had started them already, lifting the bottles 
out of the canvas cooling bags that sweated wet in the wind 
that blew through the trees that shaded the tents. 

'What had I ought to give them?' Macomber asked. 

'A quid would be plenty/ Wilson told him. 'You don't 
want to spoil them.' 

'Will the headman distribute it?' 

'Absolutely.' 

Francis Macomber had, half an hour before, been carried 
to his tent from the edge of the camp in triumph on the arms 
and shoulders of the cook, the personal boys, the skinner and 
the porters. The gun-bearers had taken no part in the 
demonstration. When the native boys put him down at the 
door of his tent, he had shaken all their hands, received their 
congratulations, and then gone into the tent and sat on the 
bed until his wife came in. She did not speak to him when 
she came in and he left the tent at once to wash his face and 
hands in the portable wash basin outside and go over to the 
dining tent to sit in a comfortable canvas chair in the breeze 
and the shade. 

Mrs. Macomber looked at Wilson quickly. She was an 
extremely handsome and well-kept woman of the beauty and 
social position which had, five years before, commanded five 



io HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

thousand dollars as the price of endorsing, with photographs, 
a beauty product which she had never used. She had been 
married to Francis Macomber for eleven years. 

'He is a good lion, isn't he?' Macomber said. His wife 
looked at him now. She looked at both these men as though 
she had never seen them before. 

One, Wilson, the white hunter, she knew she had never 
truly seen before. He was about middle height with sandy 
hair, a stubby moustache, a very red face and extremely cold 
blue eyes with faint white wrinkles at the corners that grooved 
merrily when he smiled. He smiled at her now and she 
looked away from his face at the way his shoulders sloped in 
the loose tunic he wore with the four big cartridges held in 
loops where the left breast pocket should have been, at his 
big brown hands, his old slacks, his very dirty boots, and back 
to his red face again. She noticed where the baked red of his 
face stopped in a white line that marked the circle left by his 
Stetson hat that hung now from one of the pegs of the tent pole. 

'Well, here's to the lion, 5 Robert Wilson said. He smiled at 
her again and, not smiling, she looked curiously at her 
husband. 

Francis Macomber was very tall, very well built if you did 
not mind that length of bone, dark, his hair cropped like an 
oarsman, rather thin-lipped, and was considered handsome. 
He was dressed in the same sort of safari clothes that Wilson 
wore except that his were new, he was thirty-five years old, 
kept himself very fit, was good at court games, had a number 
of big- game fishing records, and had just shown himself, very 
publicly, to be a coward. 

'Here's to the lion,' he said. 'I can't ever thank you for 
what you did.' 

Margaret, his wife, looked away from him and back to 
Wilson. 

'Let's not talk about the lion, 5 she said. 

Wilson looked over at her without smiling and now she 
smiled at him. 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER n 

'It's been a very strange day/ she said. 'Hadn't you ought 
to put your hat on even under the canvas at noon? You told 
me that, you know.' 

'Might put it on,' said Wilson. 

'You know you have a very red face, Mr. Wilson,' she told 
him and smiled again. 

'Drink/ said Wilson. 

'I don't think so/ she said. 'Francis drinks a great deal, but 
his face is never red. 3 

'It's red to-day/ Macomber tried a joke. 

'No/ said Margaret. 'It's mine that's red to-day. But Mr. 
Wilson's is always red.' 

'Must be racial/ said Wilson. 'I say, you wouldn't like to 
drop my beauty as a topic, would you?' 

'I've just started on it.' 

'Let's chuck it/ said Wilson. 

'Conversation is going to be so difficult/ Margaret said. 

'Don't bo silly, Margot/ her husband said. 

'No difficulty/ Wilson said. 'Got a damn fine lion.' 

Margot looked at them both and they both saw that she 
was going to cry. Wilson had seen it coming for a long time 
and he dreaded it. Macomber was past dreading it. 

'I wish it hadn't happened. Oh, I wish it hadn't happened/ 
she said and started for her tent. She made no noise of crying 
but they could see that her shoulders were shaking under the 
rose-coloured, sun-proofed shirt she wore. 

'Women upset/ said Wilson to the tall man. 'Amounts to 
nothing. Strain on the nerves and one thing' n another.' 

'No/ said Macomber. 'I suppose that I rate that for the 
rest of my life now.' 

'Nonsense. Let's have a spot of the giant killer/ said Wilson. 
'Forget the whole thing. Nothing to it anyway.' 

'We might try/ said Macomber. 'I won't forget what you 
did for me though.' 

'Nothing/ said Wilson. 'All nonsense.' 

So they sat there in the shade where the camp was pitched 



12 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

under some wide-topped acacia trees with a boulder-strewn 
cliff behind them, and a stretch of grass that ran to the bank 
of a boulder-filled stream in front with forest beyond it, and 
drank their just-cool lime drinks and avoided one another's 
eyes while the boys set the table for lunch. Wilson could 
tell that the boys all knew about it now and When he saw 
Macomber's personal boy looking curiously at his master 
while he was putting dishes on the table he snapped at him 
in Swahili. The boy turned away with his face blank. 

'What were you telling him?' Macomber asked. 

'Nothing. Told him to look alive or I'd see he got about 
fifteen of the best.' 

'What's that? Lashes?' 

'It's quite illegal,' Wilson said. 'You're supposed to fine 
them.' 

'Do you still have them whipped?' 

'Oh, yes. They could raise a row if they chose to complain. 
But they don't. They prefer it to the fines.' 

'How strange!' said Macomber. 

'Not strange, really,' Wilson said. 'Which would you 
rather do? Take a good birching or lose your pay?' 

Then he felt embarrassed at asking it and before 
Macomber could answer he went on, 'We all take a beating 
eVery day, you know, one way or another.' 

This was no better. 'Good God,' he thought. 'I am a 
diplomat, aren't I?' 

'Yes, we take a beating,' said Macomber, still not looking 
at hini. I'm awfully sorry about that lion business. It 
doesn't have to go any further, does it? I mean no one will 
hear about it, will they?' 

'You mean will I tell it at the Mathaiga Club?' Wilson 
looked at him now coldly. He had not expected this. So he's 
a bloody four-letter man as well as a bloody coward, he 
thought. I rather liked him too until to-day. But how is one 
to know about an American? 

'No, 5 said Wilson. 'I'm a professional hunter. We never talk 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 13 

about our clients. You can be quite easy on that. It's 
supposed to be bad form to ask us not to talk though.' 

tL had decided now that to break would be much easier. 
He would eat, then, by himself and could read a book v/ith 
his meals. They would eat by themselves. He would see 
them through the safari on a very formal basis what was it 
the French called it? Distinguished consideration and it 
would be a damn sight easier than having to go through this 
emotional trash. He'd insult him and make a good clean 
break. Then he could read a book with his meals and he'd 
still be drinking their whisky. That was the phrase for it 
when a safari went bad. You ran into another white hunter 
and you asked, c How is everything going?' and he answered, 
c Oh, I'm still drinking their whisky,' and you knew every- 
thing had gone to pot. 

'I'm sorry,' Macomber said and looked at him with his 
American face that would stay adolescent until it became 
middle-aged, and Wilson noted his crew-cropped hair, fine 
eyes only faintly shifty, good nose, thin lips and handsome 
jaw. 'I'm sorry I didn't realize that. There are lots of 
things I don't know.' 

So what could he do, Wilson thought. He was all ready to 
break it off quickly and neatly and here the beggar was 
apologizing after he had just insulted him. He made one 
more attempt. 'Don't worry about me talking,' he said. 'I 
have a living to make. You know in Africa no woman ever 
misses her lion and no white man ever bolts.' 

'I bolted like a rabbit,' Macomber said. 